README.md, before:

# eepromIHEX

Takes data from a CSV file and formats it to IHEX. This file is then ready to be uploaded into an avr eeprom using avrdude.

- [Installation](#installation)
    - [Uninstall](#uninstall)
- [Usage](#usage)
    - [Arguments](#arguments)
    - [Examples](#examples)
    - [CSV File](#csvfile)
- [Uploading](#uploading)

## Installation

For installing, clone this repository to your computer, enter in the folder
eepromIHEX and type "make", then "make install" as root.

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/SarKing/eepromIHEX
$ cd eepromIHEX
$ make
$ sudo make install
```

By default it's installed in /opt/eepromIHEX

#### Unistall

If you want to uninstall the application enter with your terminal in the folder
that you downloaded and type:

```bash
$ sudo make uninstall
```

## Usage

The basic use of this application just requires a CSV data file.

```bash
$ eepromIHEX data_file
```
And it will generate a file called "a.eep" that contains your data formatted to IHEX.

But you have more customization in the form of arguments.

#### Arguments

    -output             -o      The name of the output file. DEFAULT: a.eep
    --datalenght        -d      Maximum number of bytes per IHEX entry. DEFAULT: 32 
    --address           -a      The first address you want to write to. DEFAULT: 0
    --verbose           -v      Prints verbose information
    --help              -h      Prints help page
    --version                   Displays the version message

#### Examples

Get data from data.csv, output IHEX formatted data to eeprom.eep
```bash
$ eepromIHEX -o eeprom.eep data.csv
```

Format IHEX with 8 byte data length instead of the default 16
```bash
$ eepromIHEX -d 8 data.csv
```

Start writing to eeprom address 0xFF instead of the default 0
```bash
$ eepromIHEX -a 255 data.csv
```

#### CSV File
The CSV file used as data source needs to be like this
```bash
00,FF,5D,6E44,62,86,72,D2,55,12,22,4F,FF,00,00,00,23,45,63,56
```
It causes no problem if two or more commas are together, like this
```bash
00,FF,,6E44,62,86,,,55,12,22,,,,,00,23,45,63,56
```
But by no means can be data more than 1 byte long, so this is prohibited and will cause a malfunction
```bash
00,FFF,545D,6E44,62,86,72FF,D2,55,12,22,4F,FF,00,00,00,23,45,63,56
```

## Uploading

Once you have the .eep file, for uploading it to a AVR microcontroller using
avrdude you have to use this command.
```bash
$ avrdudde -c programmer -p mmcu -U eeprom:w:filename:i
```
Where filename is the .eep file you just generated

Commit message:

Updated README with avrdude configuration

README.md, after:

# eepromIHEX

Takes data from a CSV file and formats it to IHEX. This file is then ready to be uploaded into an avr eeprom using avrdude.

- [Installation](#installation)
    - [Uninstall](#uninstall)
- [Usage](#usage)
    - [Arguments](#arguments)
    - [Examples](#examples)
    - [CSV File](#csvfile)
- [Uploading](#uploading)

## Installation

For installing, clone this repository to your computer, enter in the folder
eepromIHEX and type "make", then "make install" as root.

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/SarKing/eepromIHEX
$ cd eepromIHEX
$ make
$ sudo make install
```

By default it's installed in /opt/eepromIHEX

#### Unistall

If you want to uninstall the application enter with your terminal in the folder
that you downloaded and type:

```bash
$ sudo make uninstall
```

## Usage

The basic use of this application just requires a CSV data file.

```bash
$ eepromIHEX data_file
```
And it will generate a file called "a.eep" that contains your data formatted to IHEX.

But you have more customization in the form of arguments.

#### Arguments

    -output             -o      The name of the output file. DEFAULT: a.eep
    --datalenght        -d      Maximum number of bytes per IHEX entry. DEFAULT: 32 
    --address           -a      The first address you want to write to. DEFAULT: 0
    --verbose           -v      Prints verbose information
    --help              -h      Prints help page
    --version                   Displays the version message

#### Examples

Get data from data.csv, output IHEX formatted data to eeprom.eep
```bash
$ eepromIHEX -o eeprom.eep data.csv
```

Format IHEX with 8 byte data length instead of the default 16
```bash
$ eepromIHEX -d 8 data.csv
```

Start writing to eeprom address 0xFF instead of the default 0
```bash
$ eepromIHEX -a 255 data.csv
```

#### CSV File
The CSV file used as data source needs to be like this
```bash
00,FF,5D,6E44,62,86,72,D2,55,12,22,4F,FF,00,00,00,23,45,63,56
```
It causes no problem if two or more commas are together, like this
```bash
00,FF,,6E44,62,86,,,55,12,22,,,,,00,23,45,63,56
```
But by no means can be data more than 1 byte long, so this is prohibited and will cause a malfunction
```bash
00,FFF,545D,6E44,62,86,72FF,D2,55,12,22,4F,FF,00,00,00,23,45,63,56
```

## Uploading

Once you have the .eep file, for uploading it to a AVR microcontroller using
avrdude you have to use this command.
```bash
$ avrdude -c "programmer" -p "mmcu" -U eeprom:w:"filename":i
```
Where "programmer" is the programmer you use (USBTiny, USBasp...), "mmcu" is the microcontroller you use (attiny85, atmega328...) and "filename" is the .eep file you just generated, the remaining leave it as is.
